(Upbeat music)
At this point in the course,
we've set up our Gatsby website.
And we've done some very basic templating and layout
and creating of pages.
On the other hand, we've done our sanity,
we've created our schemers
and we've created a couple content types
and added some data to that.
But now the question is,
how do I take the data that lives in sanity,
and get it into my Gatsby website.
Before we even get into how to do that,
I want to bring you into the GraphQL playground.
If you take a look at...
when you run NPM start on your Gatsby website,
obviously gives you a local host,
whatever for your Gatsby website.
That's what we got going here.
But then it also gives you this URL,
___GraphQL.
And if we go ahead and visit that,
you'll see actually,
you probably won't see this beer query.
That's to come.
Just you wait, it's gonna be real good.
This is the graphical,
graphical is how you say it?
And basically this is just a playground
that allows you to see what are called GraphQL queries.
And you can run queries in here
and see what data it returns you.
We're going to be leaning on this a lot
in order to write the different queries that are needed.
The whole idea behind Gatsby
is that at build time,
when we build our website,
before we deploy it to the internet,
Gatsby will go and gather all of the the data
that it needs in order to run.
In our case, it's going to go over to sanity
and grab all the pizzas,
all the people,
all the toppings,
and all the relationships between all of those
and all...
everything that we've done.
It's going to go ahead and grab all that data,
and it's going to stick it in...
I'm not going to call it a database
because as soon as it's done,
it's disappeared,
but it sticks it into its memory
and it allows us to query that data via GraphQL queries.
Now if we look at this GraphQL endpoint right now,
you'll see there is already a couple of different queries
that come standard with Gatsby.
And there's some pretty simple things like all files,
all site,
you can get some siteMetadata,
directories, things like that.
But most of this is not very useful to us as web developers.
It's more for lower level plugin authors
and things like that.
What we want to do is to figure out
how do we surface the data from our sanity
into this GraphQL explorer here,
so that we'll see it listed in the queries
and we'll be able to go ahead and pull that.
The way that we do that is via plugins
and plugins are defined in our Gatsby-config.js
and the Gatsby config file is a spot
where we can...
mostly you're going to be specifying plugins
that are used on your website.
However you can also specify Metadata
about your website things like URLs,
and titles and whatnot.
And then there's some lesser used ones.
Things like pathPrefix.
Like if you're deploying this Gatsby website
to wesbos.com/blog,
and not just like a domain,
you could add that there.
And then some polyfilling and whatnot stuff
that isn't as commonly used.
Let's go ahead and create that file.
And we'll actually do some site Metadata first,
just to show you how we can add it
and how it gets sourced to the GraphQL Explorer,
and then we'll look at adding sanity plugins,
so we can pull all of our data in there.
We already have Gatsby browser, Gatsby SSR,
and we're in to make a new one
in the very root of our folder
and that's going to be called gatsby-config.js.
Then in here, we'll say export default {
In a lot of the documentation,
you might see this,
this is module.exports.
This is what's referred to as commonJS syntax.
And at the time of recording,
NOJA's is currently adding the ability to do this
which is ES modules
And this is commonJS module.
I don't like having to use commonJS modules
because everything else is ES modules
I like to just keep it all the same.
So I've added a little bit of stuff in the package JSON,
in order to start it.
Let me see here,
this little trick right here
that might even be gone
by the time you're taking this course
because as soon as Gatsby implements this,
I'll just take that out,
and it will simply just be Gatsby build.
So don't worry about that all that much.
Then in here, we can say siteMetadata.
This one has cost me a couple hours,
make sure it's capital M on Metadata
but no capital D on that
because Metadata is one word.
I had a capital D on one of my websites
and it worked for the longest time until it didn't.
And that's an object.
And then inside of there,
we can do things like the title of Gatsby.
You notice that Gatsby docs use backticks here.
And there's nothing special about that.
You can use single, double, triple
because this is JavaScript file, not a JSON file.
You can use,
I'll use backticks here just to show you again,
I'll call it Slick's Slices,
can do things like site URL,
it's going to be https://gatsby.pizza
And then description,
we'll say the best pizza place in Hamilton.
Give that a save.
Now I believe that you need to...
you might need to restart your build.
Currently, they're working on not having to restart
your build every time
that you change your Gatsby browser config, or SSR.
So that might be changed by the time you're doing this.
But let's see here.
We'll go back to our graphical
and just refresh that page,
then we should be able to query the data via this.
However, because we just created this,
you might need to restart your process
at the time of recording,
you do need to restart your process.
Just go to your terminal,
hit Ctrl+C to kill it,
I always like to clear it out.
I hit command-K or Command-R,
and then I rerun NPM start from there.
And what that will do is when it's starting,
it first checks for gatsby-config.js,
and then any settings that are in here
gets applied to that build.
There we go,
now if we refresh the page here,
get rid of whatever is in here.
These are all the queries that we have in here.
And the way that you write a query in GraphQL,
is you type query and {.
And we're going to be writing quite a few of these
in our different pages and components.
And then inside of there, we see that we have site.
We can grab...
actually look,
if you just open and close,
the thing you'll add it to your query.
So it'll build the query for you,
instead of you having to type it.
It will also give you like IntelliSense.
So as you start typing site,
open that up,
I believe it's Ctrl+Space
will give you a possible...
this is what people are referring to
when they talk about typed things
and things like TypeScript or GraphQL is also typed.
They know ahead of time what the possible values are,
so you get this really nice autocomplete.
Inside a site, we can grab siteMetadata,
and then inside of that,
we are able to access the site,
the title, the site URL and the description.
You can take a look right here,
look,
description, site URL and title.
Then we go ahead and run that query.
And you'll see that it returns that data to us.
Now we are going to do the same thing
with our sanity studio.
However we're not going to be just manually typing in here.
We're going to be installing a plugin
that will source that data from sanity
and put it into our GraphQL explorer
that we have right here.
That's what we'll do in the next video